Hey, and welcome to this introduction to Express js.
In this video, we'll start taking a deeper look at the Express js Framework.
We've already gone over a little about what it is and what it helps with.
So, in this section,
we'll mostly focus on getting you connected to the resources you'll need to get started.
To start, head back to expressjs.com.
Like we saw before,
they pitched themselves as a fast,
unopinionated, minimalist web framework for Node.js.
To break this down a bit,
opinionated would mean that the framework has
strict guidelines or best practices that you're meant to follow.
Unopinionated means that you have
more flexibility to operate outside of these types of guidelines.
Minimalist describes that the code has been written concisely and efficiently.
This video to the right gives a great overview of the history,
purpose, and goals of the framework.
Watching this video is a great way to learn a few extra details about Express.
Next, it shows you how to install Express.
You can do this using npm install express.
All this command is saying is Node Package Manager,
install Express and save it to my package.json file as a dependency for my project.
We'll be doing this soon when you build your own project.
Down at the bottom of the page,
it goes over a few of the main features of Express.
It helps easily create APIs,
provide some web application features,
and has been used as the foundation for many other frameworks.
Finally, to view Express resources and documentation,
the top menu bar is a great place to start.
Here, you'll see documentation like getting started, guides,
API references, advanced topics, and other resources.
We'll be working through some of this documentation throughout the rest of this section.
Before we do this, check out the text below to
help get things organized and when you're ready,
we'll start working through this and creating our "Hello World" application with Express.